# ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR PRIVACY  - P1.1

Privacy Criteria Related to Notice and Communication of Objectives Related to Privacy 

### The entity provides notice to data subjects about its privacy practices to meet the entity’s objectives 
related to privacy. The notice is updated and communicated to data subjects in a timely manner for 
changes to the entity’s privacy practices, including changes in the use of personal information, to 
meet the entity’s objectives related to privacy.


!!! note "Points of focus"

    * Communicates to Data Subjects [C] — Notice is provided to data subjects regarding the following: 
        — Purpose for collecting personal information
        — Choice and consent
        — Types of personal information collected
        — Methods of collection (for example, use of cookies or other tracking techniques)
        — Use, retention, and disposal
        — Access
        — Disclosure to third parties
        — Security for privacy
        — Quality, including data subjects’ responsibilities for quality
        — Monitoring and enforcement
        If personal information is collected from sources other than the individual, such sources are described in the privacy notice. 
    * Provides Notice to Data Subjects [C] — Notice is provided to data subjects 
        - (1) at or before the time personal information is collected or as soon as practical thereafter, 
        - (2) at or before the entity changes its privacy notice or as soon as practical thereafter, or 
        - (3) before personal information is used for new purposes not previously identified.
    * Covers Entities and Activities in Notice [C] — An objective description of the entities and activities covered is included in the entity’s privacy notice.
    * Uses Clear Language and Presents a Current Privacy Notice in a Location Easily Found by Data Subjects [C] — The entity’s privacy notice is current, dated, uses clear language, and is in a location that can be easily found by data subjects.
    * Reviews the Privacy Notice [C] — A process is defined to periodically review the content of the privacy notice and to implement any identified updates. 
    * Communicates Changes to Notice [C] — Data subjects are informed when changes are made to the privacy notice and the nature of such changes. 
    * Retains Prior Notices [C] — Prior versions of the privacy notice are retained in accordance with internal requirements to document prior communications. 
