# ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR PROCESSING INTEGRITY  - P2.1
(OVER THE PROVISION OF SERVICES OR THE PRODUCTION, MANUFACTURING, OR DISTRIBUTION OF GOODS)

### The entity communicates choices available regarding the collection, use, retention, disclosure, and disposal of personal information to the data subjects and the consequences, if any, of each choice. Explicit consent for the collection, use, retention, disclosure, and disposal of personal information is obtained from data subjects or other authorized persons, if required. Such consent is obtained only for the intended purpose of the information to meet the entity’s objectives related to privacy. The entity’s basis for determining implicit consent for the collection, use, retention, disclosure, and disposal of personal information is documented.

!!! note "Points of focus"

• Communicates to Data Subjects [C] — Data subjects are informed (a) about the choices available to them with respect to the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information and (b) that implicit or explicit consent is required to collect, use, and disclose personal information, unless a law or regulation specifically requires or allows otherwise.
• Communicates Consequences of Denying or Withdrawing Consent [C] — When personal information is collected, data subjects are informed of the consequences ofrefusing to provide personal information or denying or withdrawing consent to use personal information for purposes identified in the notice.
• Obtains Implicit or Explicit Consent [C] — Implicit or explicit consent is obtained 
from data subjects at or before the time personal information is collected or soon 
thereafter. The individual’s preferences expressed in his or her consent are confirmed and implemented.
• Documents and Obtains Consent for New Purposes and Uses [C] — If information 
that was previously collected is to be used for purposes not previously identified in 
the privacy notice, the new purpose is documented, the data subject is notified, and 
implicit or explicit consent is obtained prior to such new use or purpose.
• Obtains Explicit Consent for Sensitive Information [C] — Explicit consent is obtained directly from the data subject when sensitive personal information is collected, used, or disclosed, unless a law or regulation specifically requires otherwise.
• Obtains Consent for Data Transfers [C] — Consent is obtained before personal information is transferred to or from an individual’s endpoint device. 
