# Privacy Criteria Related to Monitoring and Enforcement - P8.1


### The entity implements a process for receiving, addressing, resolving, and communicating the resolution of inquiries, complaints, and disputes from data subjects and others and periodically monitors compliance to meet the entity’s objectives related to privacy. Corrections and other necessary 
actions related to identified deficiencies are made or taken in a timely manner.

!!! note "Points of focus"

• Communicates to Data Subjects or Data Controllers [P][C] — Data subjects or 
data controllers are informed about how to contact the entity with inquiries, complaints, and disputes.
• Addresses Inquiries, Complaints, and Disputes [P][C] — A process is in place to 
address inquiries, complaints, and disputes.
• Documents and Communicates Dispute Resolution and Recourse [P][C] — Each 
complaint is addressed and the resolution is documented and communicated to the 
individual.
• Documents and Reports Compliance Review Results [P][C] — Compliance with objectives related to privacy are reviewed and documented and the results of such reviews are reported to management. If problems are identified, remediation plans 
are developed and implemented.
• Documents and Reports Instances of Noncompliance [P][C] — Instances of noncompliance with objectives related to privacy are documented and reported and, if 
needed, corrective and disciplinary measures are taken on a timely basis.
• Performs Ongoing Monitoring [P][C] — Ongoing procedures are performed for 
monitoring the effectiveness of controls over personal information and for taking 
timely corrective actions when necessary.
