#  Information and Communication - CC2.1
## COSO Principle 13: The entity obtains or generates and uses relevant, quality information to support the functioning of internal control.


!!! note "Points of focus"

    * **Identifies Information Requirements** — A process is in place to identify the information required and expected to support the functioning of the other components of internal control and the achievement of the entity’s objectives.
    * **Captures Internal and External Sources of Data** — Information systems capture internal and external sources of data.
    * **Processes Relevant Data Into Information** — Information systems process and transform relevant data into information.
    * **Maintains Quality Throughout Processing** — Information systems produce information that is timely, current, accurate, complete, accessible, protected, verifiable, and retained. Information is reviewed to assess its relevance in supporting the internal control components

!!! note "Points of additional focus for TSC"

    * **Documents Data Flow** — The entity documents and uses internal and external information and data flows to support the design and operation of controls. 
    * **Manages Assets** — The entity identifies, documents, and maintains records of system components such as infrastructure, software, and other information assets. Information assets include physical endpoint devices and systems, virtual systems, data and data flows, external information systems, and organizational roles. 
    * **Classifies Information** — The entity classifies information by its relevant characteristics (for example, personally identifiable information, confidential customer information, and intellectual property) to support identification of threats to the information and the design and operation of controls. 
    * **Uses Information That Is Complete and Accurate** — The entity uses information and reports that are complete, accurate, current, and valid in the operation of controls. 
    * **Manages the Location of Assets** — The entity identifies, documents, and maintains records of physical location and custody of information assets, particularly for those stored outside the physical security control of the entity (for example, software and data stored on vendor devices or employee mobile phones under a bring-your own-device policy). 
