#  Monitoring Activities: - CC4.1

### COSO Principle 16: The entity selects, develops, and performs ongoing and/or separate evaluations to ascertain whether the components of internal control are present and functioning.

!!! note "Points of focus"

    * Considers a Mix of Ongoing and Separate Evaluations — Management includes a balance of ongoing and separate evaluations.
    * Considers Rate of Change — Management considers the rate of change in business and business processes when selecting and developing ongoing and separate evaluations.
    * Establishes Baseline Understanding — The design and current state of an internal control system are used to establish a baseline for ongoing and separate evaluations.
    * Uses Knowledgeable Personnel — Evaluators performing ongoing and separate evaluations have sufficient knowledge to understand what is being evaluated. separate evaluations depending on risk.
    * Objectively Evaluates — Separate evaluations are performed periodically to provide objective feedback.

!!! note "Points of additional focus for TSC"

    * Considers Different Types of Ongoing and Separate Evaluations — Management uses a variety of ongoing and separate risk and control evaluations to determine whether internal controls are present and functioning. Depending on the entity’s objectives, such risk and control evaluations may include first- and second-line monitoring and control testing, internal audit assessments, compliance assessments, resilience assessments, vulnerability scans, security assessment, penetration testing, and third-party assessments
